[MUSIC]
Previously we introduced
the idea of a matrix and
related it to the problem of
solving simultaneous equations.
And we showed that the columns of a matrix
just read us what it does to the unit
vector along each axis.
Now we'll look at different types of
matrices and what they do to space.
And what happens if we apply
one matrix transformation and
then another, which is termed composition.
Now because we could make any
vector out of a vector sum of
the scaled versions of e1 hat and e2 hat.
Then what that means is the result of
the transformation is just going to be
some sum of the transform vectors,
which I'm calling e1 hat and e2 hat.
This is a bit hard to see but
what it means is that the grid lines of
our space stay parallel and evenly spaced.
They might be stretched or sheared,
but the origin stays where it is and
there isn't any curviness to the space,
it doesn't get warped.
And that's a consequence of our scalar
addition and multiplication rules for
vectors.
So that is if I write down
the matrix as capital A and
the vector its transforming is r,
whatever it was.
a b in our apples and bananas problem.
And that gives me some altered version.
We said it was 8 13 before, but I'm
going to call it r transformed or r prime.
Then we can look at what happens
when I do algebra with it.
So if I multiply r by some number,
just a number, let's call it n.
And if I apply A to (nr), what I'm
saying is that I will get nr prime.
And hopefully you can see
if I put an n in there,
when I multiply it all out I'm
going to get an n in there.
Similarly, if I multiply
A by the vector (r+s),
then I will get Ar + As.
So if I get that multiplication, get that,
do the whole thing again with another
vector, and get another vector s, and
add those two, that will be true.
So what I'm saying here is that
if I can then think of these
as being the original basis vectors,
e1 hat and e2 hat,
I'll then get some addition of e2 and
e1 primed.
So if I say that's ne1 hat + me2 hat,
I'll get nAe1 hat + mAe2 hat,
which is ne1 prime + me2 primed.
Which is just the vector sum
of some multiple of those.
So the space gets transformed,
e1 and e2 get moved.
And then I can just add
up vectors with them.
So that's very nice, that means that
all of our vector sum rules work.
Now maybe that's a bit confusing so
let's try it with an example.
So I've got my matrix A here
from my apples bananas problem.
So I have 2 3 10 1, or if we like,
the vector 2 10 and the vector 3 1.
Now let's try an example
like a vector 3 2.
Now if I multiply that out
just straightforwardly,
as we probably did at school,
I've got 2 times 3 plus 3 times 2.
So that's 6 plus 6, that's 12.
And I've got 10 times 3, which is 30,
plus 1 times 2, which is 2.
So that's 32.
But I could think of
that as being 2 3 10 1,
times (3 times 1 0 + 2 times 0 1).
That is, 3 of our e1 hat and
2 of e2 hat in a vector sum.
Now I can take the 3 out so
that's 3 times
(2 3 10 1 times 1 0).
+ 2 times (2 3 10
1 times 0 1).
And this, we know that this
is what happens from e1 hat
to get to e1 prime here,
so that's 3 times 2 10.
And that's 2 times what happens to e2 hat,
and that goes to 3 1.
So that gives us 6 plus 6 is 12 and
30 plus 2 is 32.
So it really is true,
these rules really do work.
We can think of a matrix multiplication
as just being the multiplication
of the vector sum of
the transformed basis vectors.
So pause now for a moment and try that
maybe with an example of your own.
And verify that that really does work
because that's really quite deep.
This matrix just tells us
where the basis vectors go.
That's the transformation it does.
It's not a complicated,
multiplying out thing.
We don't need to worry about
the mechanics of doing the sum.
We can just think of it in terms of
what it does to vectors in the space.
[MUSIC]